标题: 为什么我认为小约翰可汗描述中的英国比苏联可怕？
类型: answer
赞数: 6468
链接: https://www.zhihu.com/question/644324452/answer/1909241861861798388
创建时间: 1747978731
--------------------------------------------------

如果你对英国历史稍微有点了解，你就会发现带英是真的狠，在不做人方面不说是一骑绝尘，也可以说是遥遥领先。更可怕的是，因为带英是个岛国很长时间没有多少陆防压力，可以肆无忌惮的进行激烈社会改革，压榨本国人口而不招致报复。所以带英很多魔怔律法在历史评价上是正面积极的。简单通俗来讲，一般国家压榨本国人民通常会引发反抗与社会动荡，进而给外敌可乘之机。而带英就没这个顾虑，反而完成了资本的原始积累实现了工业化。比如把完不成任务的童工耳朵钉在桌子上啦，将无家可归者抓走做奴隶啦，将年轻女孩赤裸的锁在机器傍边干活啦之类的讲点具体例子:童工自工业革命以来，女工与童工以低廉的工资（女工为男工的一半，童工为五分之一），更小的体格能爬进机器缝隙与狭窄洞穴是理想劳动力。童工往往要进行十几小时的工作，严酷的工作环境与工作强度让童工身体畸形，残废甚至患病死亡。在工厂工作的儿童经常遭到老工或监工的残酷殴打，他们虚弱的四肢因长期站立和弯腰而变形，就算侥幸长大后也会变成瘸子。他们被迫每天工作十三至十五小时。类似这样的记载在工厂劳动中屡见不鲜It is alleged that the children who labour in factories are often cruelly beaten by the spinners or overlookers that their feeble limbs become distorted by continual standing and stooping, and they grow up cripples. That they are compelled to work thirteen, fourteen or fifteen hours per day. Views such as these have been repeatedly 19世纪30年代，由于过度劳累，成年后的一代人患上了膝内翻症、背负重物导致的驼背，以及每天站立14个小时导致的骨盆损伤，导致人口平均身高下降。在火柴厂工作的女孩们患上了一种名为磷颌症的极其可怕的疾病。火柴中浸入的磷烟腐蚀了他们的颌骨，导致他们的脸颊空洞，渗出恶臭的液体，造成脑损伤，最终因器官衰竭而死亡。玻璃厂的孩子们经常被高温灼伤和失明，而陶器厂里的有毒粘土粉尘则导致他们呕吐和昏厥。 Many child scavengers lost limbs or hands, crushed in the machinery; some were even decapitated. Those who were maimed lost their jobs. In one mill near Cork there were six deaths and 60 mutilations in four years. Blincoe was lucky: he only lost half a finger.A German visitor to Manchester in 1842 remarked that there were so many limbless people it was like 'living in the midst of an army just returned from campaign'. A doctor who observed mill workers noted that '… their complexion is sallow and pallid, with a peculiar flatness of feature, caused by the want of a proper quantity of adipose substance [fatty tissue], their stature low, a very general bowing of the legs … nearly all have flat feet'.The average height of the population fell in the 1830s as an overworked generation reached adulthood with knock-knees, humpbacks from carrying heavy loads and damaged pelvises from standing 14 hours a day. Girls who worked in match factories suffered from a particularly horrible disease known as phossy jaw.Fumes from the phosphorous into which matches were dipped ate at their jawbones, leaving them with empty cheeks that oozed foulsmelling liquid, brain damage and eventually death from organ failure.Children in glassworks were regularly burned and blinded by the intense heat, while the poisonous clay dust in potteries caused them to vomit and faint. 19世纪80年代，乔治·西姆斯曾记载：我认识一个小伙子，他负责把那些被人从机器里推出来的木板拔出来，现在他一只手只剩下拇指了。还有柠檬水装瓶，这又是一个主要雇佣贫困社区小伙子的行业。瓶子很容易爆裂，几乎每天都会发生致残的事件。I know one little lad who is employed at pulling out the planks which have been pushed through the machine by men, and he has one hand now on which only the thumb is left. Then there is the lemonade-bottling, which is another industry largely employing the lads of poor neighbourhoods. The bottles are liable to burst, and cases of maiming are almost of daily occurrence.工厂中也充斥着体罚与殴打，从最常见的鞭打到在脖子上挂铁块、用篮子把他们吊在屋顶上，大头朝下浸到水桶里，将耳朵钉在桌子上。纳森·唐恩在18​​32年告诉迈克尔·萨德勒和他的委员会：“我七岁的时候，在什鲁斯伯里的马歇尔先生工厂工作。如果一个孩子犯困了，监工就会拍拍他的肩膀说：‘过来。’房间角落里有一个装满水的铁水箱。他会抓住男孩的腿，把他浸入水箱，然后让他回去工作。”Jonathan Downe told Michael Sadler and his committee in 1832: "When I was seven years old I went to work at Mr. Marshalls factory at Shrewsbury. If a child was drowsy, the overlooker touches the child on the shoulder and says, "Come here". In a corner of the room there is an iron cistern filled with water. He takes the boy by the legs and dips him in the cistern, and sends him back to work."孩子们上班迟到和和其他孩子说话也会受到惩罚。约瑟夫·赫伯格拉姆指出：“如果我们迟到五分钟，工头就会拿着皮带把我们打得遍体鳞伤。”萨拉·卡彭特经常挨打：“有个工头叫威廉·休斯……他走到我面前，问我为什么我操纵的机器停了。我说我不知道​​，因为不是我停的。是另一边的一个小男孩停的，但他太害怕了，不敢说是他停的。休斯开始用棍子打我，打完之后我告诉他我会告诉我妈妈。然后他出去把师傅叫来。师傅开始用棍子打我的头，打得我头上起了疙瘩，血流不止。我的头疼得厉害，很久都睡不着觉，从那以后我就再也没睡过好觉。”Children were also punished for arriving late for work and for talking to the other children. Joseph Hebergram pointed out: "if we were five minutes too late, the overlooker would take a strap, and beat us till we were black and blue." Sarah Carpenter was beaten on a regular basis: "There was an overlooker called William Hughes... He came up to me and asked me what my drawing frame was stopped for. I said I did not know because it was not me who had stopped it. A little boy that was on the other side had stopped it, but he was too frightened to say it was him. Hughes starting beating me with a stick, and when he had done I told him I would let my mother know. He then went out and fetched the master in to me. The master started beating me with a stick over the head till it was full of lumps and bled. My head was so bad that I could not sleep for a long time, and I never been a sound sleeper since."萨拉·卡彭特声称她亲眼目睹有人打被死：“有个年轻的女人，萨拉·古德林，身体不舒服，就关掉了机器。监工詹姆斯·伯奇把她打倒在地，并在她试图起身时持续殴打。然后她被抬到学徒房间，她的同伴后来发现她死在床上。还有一个叫玛丽的学徒。她把食物罐头打翻在地。她的师傅牛顿先生踢了她的私处，导致她大出血，最终死去。还有一个叫卡罗琳·汤普森的学徒。监工把她打得失去理智成了疯子。”Sarah Carpenter claimed that she saw children beaten to death: "There was a young woman, Sarah Goodling, who was poorly and so she stopped her machine. James Birch, the overlooker knocked her to the floor. She got up as well as she could. He knocked her down again. Then she was carried to the apprentice house. Her bed-fellow found her dead in bed. There was another called Mary. She knocked her food can down on the floor. The master, Mr. Newton, kicked her where he should not do, and it caused her to wear away till she died. There was another, Caroline Thompson. They beat her till she went out of her mind."一家制钉厂的男孩因为生产出了劣质钉子而受到惩罚，监工把他的耳朵钉在桌子上，男孩只能头顶着桌子动弹不得。但从那以后，这个男孩就一直能生产出好钉子”。Supervisors used terror and punishment to drive the children to greater productivity. A boy in a nail-making factory was punished for producing inferior nails by having his head down on an iron counter while someone 'hammered a nail through his ear, and the boy has made good nails ever since'.生活在矿区的孩童则多任职推煤工，他们手脚并用的将五百至一千磅的煤炭拖拽出巷道，矿车有时候有轮子有时候则没有，推煤工往往手脚膝盖溃烂渗血，四肢畸形，最轻微的抱怨也会招致监工殴打。They are the youngest boys employed in the mine. They are stationed at traps or doors in various parts of the pit, which they have to open when trams of coal pass through and immediately to close again, as a means of directing the current of air for ventilation to follow certain prescribed channels. It was formerly the practice to send boys of not more than six years to work in the mine as trappers. They remained in the pit for eighteen hours every day, and received fivepence a day each as wages. He was in solitude and total darkness the whole time he was in the mine, except when a tram was passing. He went to his labour at two o'clock in the morning, so that during the greater part of the year it was literally true that he did not see daylight from one Sunday till the Saturday following.有些地区则喜欢雇佣女孩作为推煤工，一位巡视员曾这样描述:用来拉车的链条从两个女孩的两腿之间高高穿过，把她们的裤子磨烂，摩擦这她们的私处。就连最下贱的妓院也比不上她们所遭受的情形，简直难以想象还有什么比这更令人作呕、更下流的景象……。”An inspector described how, 'The chain [used to pull the carts] passing high up between the legs of two girls, had worn large holes in their trousers. Any sight more disgustingly indecent or revolting can scarcely be imagined … No brothel can beat it.'还有一种工作叫做Trappers，工作内容为控制风门，Trappers通常年龄不超过六岁，他们每天在矿井里工作十八个小时，每天的工资是五便士。除了有煤车经过的时候，Trappers在矿井里一直处处于黑暗与孤独中，因工作时长（通常为凌晨两点到晚上八点），Trappers在一年大部分时间根本看不到太阳。与煤矿相比，烟囱工的待遇也好不到哪去，被称为烟囱男孩的工人往往发育迟缓，脊柱、腿部和手臂畸形，据信这是由于他们被要求长时间保持不正常的姿势，骨骼尚未硬化造成的，膝盖和踝关节受影响最严重，墙壁过热导致的瘀伤和烧伤，灰尘导致的眼睑溃疡发炎，哮喘与肺炎。乃至最危险的睾丸癌都是烟囱工的常见疾病。These however were not the only occupational hazards that chimney sweeps suffered. In the 1817 report to Parliament, witnesses reported that climbing boys suffered from general neglect, and exhibited stunted growth and deformity of the spine, legs, and arms, which were thought to be caused by being required to remain in abnormal positions for long periods of time before their bones had hardened. The knees and ankle joints were the most affected. Sores and inflammation of the eyelids that could lead to loss of sight, were slow in healing because the boy kept rubbing them. Bruises and burns were obvious hazards of having to work in an overheated environment. Cancer of the scrotum was found only in chimney sweeps so was referred to as Chimney Sweep Cancer in the teaching hospitals. Asthma and inflammation of the chest were attributed to the fact that the boys were out in all weathers睾丸癌最早被发现于清理烟囱的男孩，通常被称为“烟灰疣，这种疾病总是首先侵袭阴囊下部，在那里形成一个浅表、疼痛、粗糙、外观丑陋的溃疡，溃疡边缘坚硬隆起……很快，它就会蔓延到阴囊的皮肤、肉膜和内膜，并侵袭睾丸，使其肿大、变硬，最终彻底丧失功能。然后，它沿着精索向上进入腹部。It is a disease which always makes it first attack on the inferior part of the scrotum where it produces a superficial, painful ragged ill-looking sore with hard rising edges ... in no great length of time it pervades the skin, dartos and the membranes of the scrotum, and seizes the testicle, which it inlarges , hardens and renders truly and thoroughly distempered. Whence it makes its way up the spermatic process into the abdomen.这些孩子的命运似乎特别艰难......他们受到极其残酷的对待......他们被推入狭窄且有时很热的烟囱，在那里他们被擦伤、烧伤并几乎窒息；当他们进入青春期时，他们变得......容易患上最有害、最痛苦和致命的疾病。The fate of these people seems peculiarly hard ... they are treated with great brutality ... they are thrust up narrow and sometimes hot chimnies, where they are bruised burned and almost suffocated; and when they get to puberty they become ... liable to a most noisome, painful and fatal disease.我记得有个说法是童工是社会进步的象征，因为不当童工会直接变成弃婴……其实这话对也不对，童工确实给很多婴儿暂时活下去的机会，但不代表当时英国就没有弃婴了。比如当年英国民间最喜欢的死产与代弃婴:将婴儿出生登记为死产（still-birth）也是掩盖杀婴罪行的一种手段，因为在1926年之前，死产无需登记，也无需埋葬于公共墓地 。1895年，伦敦《太阳报 》发表题为《无辜者大屠杀 》（"Massacre of the Innocents"）的文章，揭露了“代弃婴”（baby-farming）的危害及死产登记中的漏洞，并引用了伦敦验尸官阿瑟尔斯坦·布拉克斯顿·希克斯（Athelstan Braxton Hicks）对非法接生所（lying-in houses）的控诉：“我毫不怀疑，‘死产’这一表述掩盖了大量犯罪行为。英格兰各地，尤其是伦敦和其他大城市，频繁发现被遗弃的新生儿尸体——有的被丢弃在街头、河流或公地等场所……此类罪行多与所谓的‘非法接生所’有关。这些场所既未注册，也缺乏监管。接生者常在婴儿出生后立即将其投入水桶溺毙，或用湿布闷死。此外，将婴儿头部猛砸地面致颅骨破裂的行为亦屡见不鲜。”Recording a birth as a still-birth was also another way of concealing infanticide because still-births did not need to be registered until 1926 and they did not need to be buried in public cemeteries. In 1895 The Sun (London) published the article, "Massacre of the Innocents", highlighting the dangers of baby-farming, the recording of stillbirths, and quoting Athelstan Braxton Hicks, the London coroner, on lying-in houses:I have not the slightest doubt that a large amount of crime is covered by the expression 'still-birth'. There are a large number of cases of what are called newly-born children, which are found all over England, more especially in London and large towns, abandoned in streets, rivers, on commons, and so on... great deal of that crime is due to what are called lying-in houses, which are not registered, or under the supervision of that sort, where the people who act as midwives constantly, as soon as the child is born, either drop it into a pail of water or smother it with a damp cloth. It is a very common thing, also, to find that they bash their heads on the floor and break their skulls.1866年，贝恩斯夫人在《社会科学杂志》上报道说:“人们发现街头孩童尸体的反应，已淡漠到与捡拾一只死猫或死狗无异。”reported Mrs Baines in the Journal of Social Sciences in 1866, ‘that they think no more of finding the dead body of a child in the streets than of picking up a dead cat or dog说完童工再聊聊带英堪称血腥的反流浪法自英国圈地运动发起百年后的十七世纪下半期，据统计，居民中的无业者和半无业者达到三百万人。仅伦敦就有五分之一人口为无业流民。为“合理”利用这些空闲劳动力，英国出台《血腥立法》，这法律堪称人类史上的绝世狠活。法律内容包括但不限于:凡流浪者在一个月之内找不到工作的，一旦有人告发就将其判为告发者的奴隶，主人有权用锁链和皮鞭强迫其劳动。此类奴隶逃亡14天以上，则被判为终身奴隶，并要在其额头上或者背上烙上S标志，这是英文“奴隶”（Slave）一词的第一个字母。主人有权出卖或者转让他，逃亡3次的奴隶要被处死。任何人都有权带走流浪汉的子女，并将他们留作学徒，男童留至24岁，女童留至20岁。如果他们逃跑，则在24岁之前，他们将成为其主人的奴隶，主人可以根据需要给他们戴上镣铐、鞭打他们等等。每个主人都可以在其奴隶的脖子、手臂或腿上戴上铁环，以便更容易地识别和确定他。这种教区奴隶在英国一直存在，直到19世纪后期，被称为“巡工”。任何游荡乞讨的人都会被宣告为流氓和流浪汉。治安法官有权在小型法庭公开鞭笞他们，初犯可判处六个月监禁，再犯可判处两年监禁。在狱中，他们将被鞭笞，次数和频率由治安法官决定……顽固不化且危险的流氓将被烙上“R”字，并被强制从事苦役，如果再次被抓到乞讨，将被直接处刑。1744年流浪法将流浪者种类细分:假募捐者（以火灾或其他灾祸损失为借口募捐者 )监所医院募捐者（以监狱、看守所或医院为借口募款者 )非法演艺从业者驯熊人或带熊表演者未经法律授权从事幕间剧、悲剧、喜剧、歌剧、戏剧、闹剧或其他舞台娱乐表演者 江湖艺人群体吟游诗人与杂耍艺人 吉普赛人自称精通相面、手相或占卜者欺诈与赌博者家庭责任逃避者抛妻弃子离家出走者 未持有效执照的小商贩和货郎非法流浪者游荡并寄宿于酒馆、谷仓、外屋或露天场所，且无法合理解释自身情况者 冒充士兵、水手、海员或假称参与收割工作者知道为啥英国贫民要睡四便士的棺材和两便士的绳子了吧，因为露宿在外的人会被当做流浪汉抓走做奴工。圈地运动也是历史上最剧烈的土地兼并之一，英格兰/苏格兰贵族侵占农民敞田改造成牧场以谋取高额利润，并胁迫失地者强制劳动。被布坎南评价为:做成了蒙古人在中国北部想做而没有做成的事。本郡及邻郡的所有其他的自由农都赞同我们的意见，来敦促他们的下院议员提出这样的法案：允许监禁贫民和强迫贫民劳动，从而使任何拒绝受监禁的人都无权要求救济。我们希望，这样能使贫民不致要求救济。”（罗·布莱基《古今政治文献史》1855年伦敦版第2卷第84、85页苏格兰农奴制的废除要比英格兰迟几百年。1698年索耳通的弗列特切尔还在苏格兰议会中说：“在苏格兰，乞丐的人数估计不下20万。我，一个原则上的共和主义者，能提出的消除这种现象的唯一办法是恢复农奴制的旧状态，把一切没有能力独立谋生的人变为奴隶。当蒙古人入侵国北部各省的时候，曾经商议要消灭那里的居民，并把他们的土地变成牧场。苏格兰高地的许多地主已经在自己的土地上对自己的同胞实现了这个方案。”大卫·布坎南《论亚·斯密的国富论》1814年爱丁堡版第4卷第144页）如前文所述，为防止流浪者逃跑，工厂主往往会讲奴工身上套上锁链。教区的学徒如果从工厂逃跑，将面临被送进监狱的危险。那些被认为可能逃跑的儿童会被戴上镣铐。罗伯特·布林科（Robert Blincoe）解释道："铁匠负责用铆钉将镣铐固定在学徒身上——只要主人下令。这些镣铐与通常给重罪犯戴的镣铐非常相似。即使是年轻女性，如果被怀疑有逃跑意图，也会被铆上脚镣，这些铁链通过长链环一直延伸到臀部。她们被迫戴着这些刑具往返于工厂和宿舍，甚至睡觉时也不能卸下。"普雷斯顿的塞缪尔·戴维（Samuel Davy）声称："这些镣铐就像监狱里对待重刑犯的刑具，还经常以极其不体面的方式给年轻女性佩戴。在隆冬时节，她们近乎赤裸地被锁住，这种情况有时会持续数日之久。"Robert Blincoe was interviewed by John Brown in 1828.The blacksmith had the task of riveting irons upon any of the apprentices, whom the master ordered. These irons were very much like the irons usually put upon felons. Even young women, if they suspected of intending to run away, had irons riveted on their ankles, and reaching by long links and rings up to the hips, and in these they were compelled to walk to and fro from the mill to work and to sleep.矿工奴隶制十六世纪苏格兰为保护煤矿业，防止矿工流失，出台法律禁止矿工在不经过雇主同意的情况下擅自离职，除非矿工在矿产停产后去其它矿场工作一年零一天，矿工沦为世袭奴隶。1661年，法案被重新确认，并将适用范围扩展至水泵工、卷扬机操作工及巷道维护工。这一修订侧面印证了过去半世纪采矿技术的重大进步：原本附属性的工种已发展为专业岗位。1672年颁布的《流浪者收容法》更授权矿主可任意抓捕流浪汉投入矿井劳作。1708年，克雷吉的托马斯·华莱士爵士起诉布朗希尔的威廉·坎宁安，指控他引诱了八九名出生在他领下土地、几年前曾在他的煤矿工作的矿工。布朗希尔拒绝归还这些矿工，理由是他们虽然最初属于托马斯爵士，但七八年来一直没有为他工作；而且由于他们离开布朗希尔已有一年多零一天，所以他开设了新的煤矿，这并不能成为收回这些矿工的正当理由。证据显示，这些矿工在布朗希尔工作还不到一年。高等法院法官裁定，如果没有前任矿工的同意，矿工就无法被雇佣，而托马斯爵士现在的煤矿仍在运营，完全可以收回这些矿工；尽管他们离开布朗希尔已有数年，但他们在布朗希尔工作还不到一年，因此他必须将他们归还。The collier and his dependents were subjected to a measure of social ostracism, partly on account of the spirit of the times, which in a much greater degree than now regarded all labour as menial, but chiefly because of the solitary nature of the occupation. Engaged in dirty and unattractive work, in darkness and alone, and dissociated from the activities of the outer world, the collier settled into that condition of separateness which is characteristic of the class to the present day.Such was the state of the coal-mining population in the sixteenth century, when the country was awakening to a sense of its commercial capabilities. Successive Acts of Parliament passed in the later years of that century to prohibit the export of coal are evidence of the rise of an extensive trade with foreign countries, the wider development of existing coal-works, and the opening up of new fields to meet the demand. The owners of new coal-works, having no trained colliers on their own estates, sought them at established collieries, and induced them by means of gifts and promises of higher wages to leave their employment. This was naturally resented by their masters, who had difficulty in getting sufficient workers for their own pits. The aggrieved coal-owners made application to Parliament to put a stop to the practice. Accordingly, in the year 1606, an Act was passed, which ordained that no person should fee, hire, or conduce any salters, colliers, or coal-bearers without a sufficient testimonial from the master whom they had last served, and that any one hiring them without such testimonial was bound, upon challenge within a year and a day by their late master, to deliver them up to him, under a penalty of £100 for each person and each act of contravention, the colliers, bearers, and salters so transgressing and receiving wages to be held as thieves and punished accordingly. Reference has already been made to the close connexion between colliers and salters, which explains why salters were brought within the scope of this Act.It need not be supposed that this measure did violence to the sentiment of the time, or that the workers thought it an instrument of oppression. It had been the rule for the collier and his family to live and be cared for and die on the estate on which he was born, and the mere preventing him from leaving the work where he was engaged, unless he had the permission of his master, would probably appear to him to be no unreasonable restriction.Up till the year 1661, colliers and salters were the only workers to whom the Act applied, but in that year the Act of 1606 was ratified, and an addition made embracing other colliery workers - named watermen, windsmen, and gatesmen. This circumstance furnishes incidentally a noteworthy proof of the great progress that had been made in mining during the preceding half century. Departments of work that formerly did not exist, or were merely subsidiary, had become specialized; and there were now men in the collieries set apart for laying or pumping water from dip-workings, winding the coal up the shafts by means of windlasses, and attending to the repair of the roads underground.还有一种专门负责点燃煤矿瓦斯的职业，被称为点火人（firemen)。他们的任务是带绑着蜡烛的长杆，点燃井下凝聚的瓦斯，防止矿工死于中毒或爆炸因为身穿浸水麻布长袍，看起来很像中世纪的苦修士，故又名（penitant)忏悔者。防止甲烷爆炸造成伤害的通常方法是，一个人先于工人进入，工人盖上湿布，当工人靠近担心着火的煤墙时，他匍匐前进，面前放一根长杆，杆头上插着一根点燃的蜡烛，火焰点燃野火，猛烈地燃烧起来，沿着屋顶蔓延，在水槽口发出一声响，火就灭了，忏悔者爬在地上，脸贴着火，直到火被扑灭。It was during the seventeenth century the practice of “firing” gas, from which comes the designation “fireman” or deputy, came into prominence. The first account of this practice is given in Sinclar’s (History of coal mining) published in 1672. The late Professor H.Briggs has given an account and extracts from this book in the Transactions of the Institution of Mining Engineers, Volume 67, page 132, which is well worth reading by all interested in the early history of coal mining. Speaking of the danger of death from explosion of methane he says-The ordinary way by which the hurt of it is prevented, is by a person that enters, before the workman, who being covered with wet cloath, when he comes near the coal-wall, where the fire is feared, he creepeth on his belly, with a long poll before him, with a lighted candle on the end thereof, with whose flame the wild-fire meating, breaketh with violence, and running along the roof, goeth out with a noise, at the mouth of the sink the person that gave fire, having escaped, by creeping on the ground and keeping his face close to it, till it be overpassed which is in a moment.There was a picture of an engraving in the old NCB Mine Gasses booklet called "The Penitent". His job was to make sure the workings were safe from firedamp. He would be wrapped in wet rags and had a candle or something that was alight on the end of a long pole, which he would thrust into probable gas pockets, thus igniting the firedamp.综上所述，带英不光在kd上碾压蒙古/代清/毛子这些传统类人势力，在折磨自己国民这一方面也很有开创性。更可怕的是，以上诸多奴役/剥削行为从宏观角度来看反而促进了英国生产力的进步，理论上是具有正面意义的。比起原始野蛮的杀戮/人口膨胀的饥饿，这种“具备进步意义的压迫”则更令人不寒而栗。就如题主所说的“带英带给世界文明的一面”，这文明的一面恰恰是立于孩童的尸骨，工人的哀嚎之上。